# MonsterBS
--------------------

The Monster Build System is a collection of scripts that make it painless to
create, customize, and manage a C++ project from a single control file.
It is built on top of Make and Shell scripts.


### Features
* Cross-platform Support
* Cross-compilation Support
* Build profiles for:
	* Debug and Release builds
	* OS: Windows, Linux, and Mac
	* Arch: x86 and x86_64
* Test builds
* Reverse header dependency generation
* Static and Shared Library creation
* Out of source tree build output
* Header and library installation
* Packaging of release builds
* Documentation generation using [Doxygen](http://www.stack.nl/~dimitri/doxygen/)
* Batch script to launch Windows build
* Shell script to launch Linux/Mac build
* FreeDesktop.org's `.desktop` file generation/installation for Unix platforms
* LinesOfCode calculation script using `cloc-1.60.pl`


### Getting Started
* Make a copy of the 'Project.mk' file and name it to your project's name.
> cp Project.mk PROJECT_NAME.mk

* Open it and fill in the Metadata, Directories, Build Targets and other Fields

* Source files are automatically generated by detecting all `.cpp` files within
`SRCDIR`. This can be customized for other languages, or you can list the files
manually.

* Customize the Compilation settings. The '*FLAG' settings are applied to all
targets. Settings for a specific target are added by the '*_PROFILE' functions.

* Once finished with customization, your Project can be generated using Make.
> make PROJECT_NAME

* This will generate your Project into a folder named after your Project.


## Implementation Overview
Your Project's main `Project.mk` file contains all variable definitions needed
to customize the Project's scripts and Makefile. When `make project` is executed
the Makefile includes all of the `Project.mk` variables, then executes\
`MonsterBS.sh`. This script will create your Project's folder hierarchy, and
copy over relevant scripts from the `tools` directory. The script will then
go through all of the copied files, and replace instances of `$$VARIABLE_NAME`
with the value set within the Project definition file. (Additions or Removals
of `Project.mk` variables need to be reflected manually within the script.)

When you compile your Project with `make`, it will include some of your
Project's settings. However, most scripts won't do this, changes to their
variables in `Project.mk` won't be reflected until you regenerate your project
with MonsterBS.


#### Created by Dan H4tch 2014-2015

